The increasing frequency of natural and man-made disasters necessitates post-event damage assessment and land-use analysis to enhance disaster resilience, especially during reconstruction. Disaster resilience refers to a city's ability to analyze, respond to, and recover from disasters, requiring precise insights into land-use patterns and structural damage for efficient recovery.
Current post-disaster assessment models often rely on Deep Learning methods, which, while accurate, demand significant computational resources, limiting their applicability in resource-constrained environments (Lee et al., 2023). [senpais comment to this section: I didn't get how deep learning can be used to assess post-disaster anything. Usually what comes to (my) mind on this type of research is using simulation models / ArcGIS. You should explain that you are using DNNs to process aerial images of disaster areas here.]
This research proposes a hybrid framework combining lightweight subspace methods with Deep Learning for land-use and damage assessment using high-resolution satellite imagery(1). The goal is to create a computationally efficient model for resource-constrained environments, which can help deliver rapid, actionable insights to urban planners and deployable tools for reconstruction efforts(2), enhancing disaster resilience. [senpais comment to this section: (1) If you are using satellite imagery, why a computationally efficient model is necessary? Won't this run on a server somewhere? on Lee et. al. they run their software on UAV, so the computational efficiency seems to make more sense. (2) This is a bit abstract. How exactly does a more computationally efficient model can help with disaster resilience? Can't current models already do that?]
Damage assessment identifies infrastructure impact, while land-use analysis provides insights in spatial distribution of resources and human activity. Combining these tasks offers a comprehensive view of affected areas, enabling targeted recovery strategies, optimal resource allocation, and improved urban resilience.
We propose using datasets such as Sentinel-2, xBD, and xView2, with preprocessing steps including noise removal, resolution alignment, and multispectral band merging. Sentinel-2 will classify land-use features (e.g., urban, rural, vegetation) using high-resolution multispectral imagery (Belgiu & Csillik, 2018). The xBD dataset, annotated for pre and post-disaster damage assessment, is used for…will train and validate the model with augmentation to improve generalization (Gupta et al., 2019). xView2, annotated with gradual building damage levels, enhances damage classification granularity, while UAV-acquired imagery is used to complement satellite imagery for localized data (Xu et al., 2018).
Given that imagery from satellites and UAVs contains an immense amount of different data, we propose employing Sparse Subspace Clustering (SSC) for dimensionality reduction, processing satellite imagery to preserve key structural features (Elhamifar et al., 2013). We feed this output into the U-Net model to classify the images pixel-wise, and assess information of damage areas and land-use categories (Ronneberger et al., 2015). For extracting spatial features, SSC and U-Net together {form a promising hybrid to improve computational efficiency and interpretability} [senpai’s comment: Why? How does pre-processing with SSC helps UNet? I really don't know, maybe you can ask Gulpi to help you in this, and Why is interpretability important?], by combining SSC’s efficiency… .
This hybrid framework uniquely combines SSC's efficiency in high-dimensional data preprocessing with U-Net's segmentation precision. The model will be evaluated using metrics like precision, recall, F1 score, and Intersection over Union (IoU).
Additionally, Incorporating real-time data from UAVs and IoT sensors can enhance adaptability, combining localized imagery with ground-level data (Erdelj & Natalizio, 2016). Testing will cover diverse geographic contexts, including Japan’s disaster-prone regions and war-torn areas with decimated infrastructure.
The result is a scalable, deployable framework for government agencies and NGOs to improve disaster resilience and recovery. The results from this study can also be applied to disaster preparedness, infrastructure planning, smart cities, and climate change monitoring.
